Blendgit is an addon for Blender 2.8x <https://www.blender.org/> that
lets you keep track of multiple versions of a .blend file using the
Git <https://git-scm.com/> version-control system. Blender itself lets
you keep older versions of a file each time you save, up to a maximum
of 32; using version control extends this to unlimited versions, and
also lets you attach a comment to each one to remind yourself why it
was saved.

Once you have installed the addon and enabled it for the current
document, you will see an extra submenu at the bottom of your “File”
menu, entitled “Version Control”: this contains two items, “Load
Version...” and “Save Version...”. Selecting “Save Version...” will
display a popup letting you enter a comment to be associated with this
version; clicking “OK” will save the current document, along with any
external files it depends on (fonts, images, libraries, sounds) into
the repository and attach the comment. If your document is called
“foo.blend”, then the repository directory will be called
“foo.blend.git”. Note that the document has to have been saved at
least once (i.e. it cannot be untitled) before the repository can be
created, because it takes its name from the .blend file.

Having saved a version of the document, you can reload that version at
any subsequent time by selecting “Load Version...”: this will display
a list of the comments associated with all the versions you previously
saved, from which you can select one and click “OK” to reload that
version. This will WIPE OUT THE COPY OF THE DOCUMENT YOU WERE WORKING
ON (both in-memory and on-disk) ALONG WITH ITS DEPENDENCIES, so you
may want to make sure that was also saved in the repository before
loading the older version.

Blender doesn’t seem to allow for attaching “Cancel” buttons to popup
dialogs; however, you can dismiss the load and save dialogs without
performing any action by pressing the Escape key.

Lawrence D'Oliveiro <ldo@geek-central.gen.nz>
2021 May 6
